---
layout: post
title: "VuePress"
category: front
---

A quick introduction to what is VuePress.
Flexfitcorner.com is a website I have built from scratch using vuepress and its features.

<!--more-->

# What is VuePress?
For those of you who aren't familiar, VuePress is a static site generator built on top of Vue.js, a popular JavaScript framework. It was created by Evan You, the same mastermind behind Vue.js. VuePress leverages the power of Vue.js and the simplicity of markdown to create blazing-fast, SEO-friendly static websites.

# VuePress features
1. Markdown-centric content creation
One of the core features of VuePress is its focus on markdown files. As a developer, I've always enjoyed working with markdown for documentation and content creation due to its simplicity and readability. VuePress allows me to write content using markdown and effortlessly convert it into beautiful HTML pages.

2. Vue.js integration
Since VuePress is built on top of Vue.js, it enables seamless integration of Vue components within markdown files. This is a fantastic feature for developers like me who are already familiar with Vue.js. It allows us to create dynamic and interactive pages without having to leave the comfort of markdown.

3. Out-of-the-box performance optimization
VuePress comes with built-in performance optimizations such as lazy-loading images, automatic code-splitting, and pre-rendering. These optimizations ensure that the final output of your static site is blazing-fast, even for content-rich pages.

4. Customizability
VuePress allows you to customize your site with ease. You can create your theme or modify the default theme to suit your needs. Additionally, there is a growing ecosystem of plugins available to extend the functionality of your site even further.

5. Excellent documentation and community support
VuePress boasts thorough and well-organized documentation that guides you through every step of the process. The VuePress community is also incredibly supportive and helpful, making it easy for beginners to get started and for experienced developers to find answers to their questions.

# My Journey with VuePress
I've had the opportunity to use VuePress for a personnal project and I can confidently say that it has streamlined my workflow and improved my productivity. The simplicity of markdown, the flexibility of Vue.js, and the out-of-the-box optimizations have made it a pleasure to work with.

One recent project is flexfitcorner.com.  
A personnal blog that I would like to turn into a business. It is about my journey with trying to get and stay in shape.