---
layout: post
title: "Pulumi"
category: infra
---

As a web developer everyday is about using different language and frameworks to build engaging and usefull websites.
But website do not come alive by themselves and they must be hosted on the web to be available to everyone.

In my quest in becomming a full fledged developer I needed solutions to handle infrastructure for my different projects.
I did not want a black box hosting solution and I wanted to keep control on where my code is running.

This is where I discovered Pulumi, an Infrastructure as Code (IaC) framework.

<!--more-->

Pulumi is an IaC tool that allows developers to define, provision, and manage cloud resources using familiar programming languages like JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Go, and .NET. This means that you can use the same language for both front-end and back-end web development, as well as your infrastructure! It's like finding a magical key that unlocks a hidden door to a whole new world of possibilities.

As I explored the Pulumi ecosystem, I discovered that it was more than just a tool. It was a community filled with passionate developers who were eager to share their knowledge, and Pulumi itself was under constant development, with new features being added regularly. I was instantly hooked.

The whole process of setting up the infrastructure, from creating the storage to deploying the blog, was like a breath of fresh air. No more switching between languages or dealing with obtuse configuration files. Just a few lines of code, and I had everything I needed.

I was amazed by how easy it was to integrate Pulumi with other tools and services. For instance, I was able to create an S3 bucket, synchronise a folder containing my website code, configure it as a website, use that bucket to create a CloudFront CDN instance to cache my website and registrer that cdn endpoint with my domain in AWS Route 53, all within the same Pulumi project and in less that a 100 lines of code. It was like discovering a whole new superpower.

In conclusion, discovering Pulumi was an epiphany for me, and I can't imagine my life as a web developer without it.
It's not just another mainstream tool, but rather an innovative approach to simplifying and unifying the web development experience. If you're a developer who's tired of juggling between languages and wrestling with infrastructure, I encourage you to give Pulumi a try.

Who knows, it might just be the magical key you've been looking for too!